Importing Data from a Text file.
We are doing advanced pivot tables now.
If I double click to open this particular file, but because it's a txt file that's 
going to open in the application Notepad. So I have a country column, product units, a sold price,
manufacturing price, so on and so forth.
And the thing you'll probably notice here is that it's not particularly in line, it's not a 
nice neat columns like you would find in a table. And that's absolutely no problem when you're
importing this data into Excel.
One important thing to know in here, if you do have a text file that you've created, is 
how these columns are separated. 
So my columns in this particular file are separated with a tab. It might be that the text 
file that you create, the columns separated by a comma or maybe a semi colon or even another 
special character. It doesn't necessarily have to be a tab. 
It's just important to keep that in the back of your mind when you're importing a file like 
this into Excel.
Import all of this data into Excel. 
We're going to clean up a little bit and get it looking nice and organized in columns before 
we analyze it with a pivot table. 

So if you have your data stored off in another Excel workbook, you could import it from there. 
We can import from a text CSV file which is what we're going to do in a moment from XML and we 
have some other file we have seen here as well. We can also import from a database. So if you 
have maybe some data stored in the Access database, you can also import that into Excel. 
And we're going to be looking at that in the next module. You can import data from Azure and 
also from many other different sources. So for example you can import from a table or range 
from the Web, from a Query, or you could set up an ODBC link to an external database. 

So if you use some kind of system, maybe an HR system or a financial system, you can create 
a connection between Excel and that system and import data that way. Now that's out of the 
scope of this particular course, we're going to focus on two of the most common ways of
importing data, and that is from a text file and also from an Access database. 
So aside from that dropdown, we then have some other little options. Now these are 
basically repeats of what you see underneath this Get Data. So really the most popular 
ones have been listed here to make them easy for you to access. So we're going to import
from a text file and I'm going to select from text slash csv. So let's open up File Explorer, 
I have the Import Data dialog box just here, and it's asking me to browse for the file that I 
want to import. Now I have mine saved of on to my desktop, so this is going to be pretty easy 
for me to find. And there it is, Sales Data.txt select it and click on 'Import.'

Now what Excel is doing is it's establishing a connection and you can see now I have this
get and transform window open up. Now what you can see here, is there some information to
top here about the file origin? But it's also picked up the delimiter. So how are my columns 
separated? And if you remember I said at the beginning when we're looking at the note pad file
that my icons were separated by a tab, and that's exactly what Excel has picked up. If we click 
the drop down there, you'll see I have a whole host of different options. So if for some reason 
it picks up the wrong one, you can just jump into here and you can very easily change that.

Now it says data type detection and it says based on the 1st 200 rows. So what the getting and 
transform utility is trying to do here is detect what type of data I have in each of these 
columns, based on the 1st 200 rows of my data. And I can also see is that this divided it down
very nicely. So because the delimiter is a tab, every time there's a tab it separate the next 
item into a different column. And this is where we're moving into more of the power Query options
in Excel. If we click on transform data, it's going to open up a power query editor window. 
And it's important my data into this window and I now have the opportunity to do some 
cleaning up of this data. Again, if you remembered in one of the previous modules,
I told you that it's really important to have your data clean and consistent before you start 
trying to analyze it using a pivot table. I'm going to say replace currents and that's going to 
change that to a currency format. They have the currency format. 

Now we get to the Date column let's click and I'm going to change this to date format. 
This one is fine as it is text and year is also fine because that is text as well. 
You can remove any columns that you don't want to analyze, you can do all kinds of things.
Now, I'm not going to go too much into this past that basic level formatting, but once you're
happy with this, you can then select the 'close and load' button. And what that's going to 
do is it's going to import all of that data into your Excel worksheet. And what it's 
helpfully done, is that it's also automatically put this data in a table for me and it's 
give it the name, sales_data and what I can now do is I can just go through and I can 
check to make sure everything looks pretty good, which it does. I have a column on the
end here which I don't actually need. So I'm going to right click and I'm going to say 
'Delete.' But now my data is pretty much in a good format for me to then go and summarize 
it using a pivot table. So hopefully that shown you how straightforward it is to take a
text file, import it into Excel, do some basic cleaning up using power query and import
it into your worksheet, ready for analysis. That's it for this module. In the next module,
I'm going to show you another way of importing data and that is from an access database. 

